<The Topology of the 2x2 Games> A New Periodic Table
David Robinson and David Goforth

*Personal memos while reading the book. 

p1.
Simplicity gies the 2x2 game stheir power: they provide remarkable diversity with the absolute minimum of machinery.

The apparent simplicity of the 2x2 games is deceptive. The eight numbers yield a class of 144 problems of remarkable rechness 
and complexity.
And while individual games have been discussed in detail, the relationships among the games have never been mapped.
Instead, the 2x2 gaems are almost alwyas dealt with anecdotally.

The goal of this book is to present a systematic framework for the 2x2 games. 

Abstracting vital information and suppressing the irrelevant is at the heart of any formal approach. Game theory is a formal 
approach to analysing social situations employing highly stylized and parsimonious descriptions.

The analysis of a game is usually directed toaward determining what might happen when players interact given the rules and 
available information. (Solution)

A game in strategic form is just a function with one input for each player (a strategy) and one output for each player 
(a payoff).

The two players constitute the player set. The actions available to the players, called strategies, make up the strategy sets
for the players.

p5.
One goal of this book is to present a useful ways to divide this infinite 8-space into a manageable number of meaningful regions.

The regions are defined using two simplifications: (i) we treat sets of games that are equivalent under strictly monotonic
transformations as equivalence classes, and (ii) we rule out indifference.- Ruling out indifference eliminates ties in the 
payoffs for either player, restricting us to the strict ordinal games. It also creates a discontinuity between the equivaence
classes.

p7
If the outcome is picked out by a solution concept, it is "in the solution set". If the solution concept picks no outcome, 
the solution set is empty.

p8.
THe strategy space is the domain of the payoff function.

p9. Chapter 2, 144 games
Numbering systems in the literatrue are essentially arbitrary, so we introduce a simple indexing system based on teh topological
relationships between games. A set of four reference figures shows the order graph for all 144 games arrayed according to our 
indexing system. We also discuss the patterns that appear at the level of the order graph.

p11.
We call the set of payoff vectors when one player's choices are fixed the inducement correspondence, short for what Greenberg 
calls the inducement correspondence for the Nash situation.
An indecement correspondence is a general term for a set of positions that one player can bring about, or 'induce'. When we 
refer to 'Row's inducement correspondences for Nash situation are always columns of the payoff matrix, and Column's are always
rows.

Solid lines identify Row's two inducement correspondences (linking alternatives available to Row once Column has chosn)
and dotted lines identify the inducement correspondences for the column player.

p12.
A solution set is simply a subset of the possible outcomes that either predicts how a particular game will turn out or 
prescribes how it should turn out. A solution concept is a rationale for picking a solution based on the information specified
in the form. No other information can be used. 

Rapport and Guyer established a commonly accepted count for the 2x2 games. They began with the observation that there are 576
(4*9*16) ways to arrange two sequences of four numbers in a bi-matrix. They then decided (in effect) that if matrices produce 
the same order graph they are equivalent, reducing the number of games by a factor of four to 144. 

p18 << no idea what this talks about YET
We have now chosen two of the four payoff vectors required to define a 2x2 game. Without loss of generality we can arbitrarily
assign the two points to Row's inducement correspondence (one o fthe columns of a payoff matrix).
  There are 9 alternatives for the location of the third point, since it can be below the lowest(1), 
  between the two previous points(2),or above both of them(3), and it can also be either left of, right of, or between them. 
  
p19
c: the column player's payoff pattern (6)
r: the row player's payoff pattern (6)
l: the relative orientation of the two payoff patterns (4)

With six column patterns, six row patterns, and four layers, we have room for exactly 2x2 games. The entire collection of games
can be visualized.

p21
Order graphs are patterns drawn on a four-by-four grid. They consist of four nodes connected by tow paris of lines to form a
quadrilateral. Each of the nodes represetns a payoff pair; each line represents a rwo or a column of a payoff matrix. Stric 
ordinality implies that no vertical or horizontal line in the grid can contain more than one dot. 

p21 << 'seven basic payoff patterns'? why not six? YET
To construct particular order graph we select the appropriate elementary patterns, connect the dots, assign the inducement 
correspondences, and then rotate or reflect the resulting quadrilateral to get the right orientation. Rotations and reflections
preserve the shape of the figure but change its orientation. Any point-to-point transformation that preserves distances and 
relations betweeen points in this way is called an 'isometry'.

To understand the patterns in the set of 144 order graphs, we need to understand how the dots can be wired, how they can be 
assigned, and the various ways that the figure can be rotated or reflected. 

p22
WIRINGS
For some patterns, there are three distinct 'wirings'; for others, only two. 
The number 4 beside the square indicates that four games can be made from it by reflection, rotation or reassignment. 

ASSIGNMENT << YET
If the dotted lines in the square in the first row are changed to solid lines, and the solid lines into dotted lines, 
the result is a new game. In the new game Row faces gthe alternatives that Column faced in the original game.
We call the new game the antigame of the original, and we get to the new game by the operation A, which reAssigns the 
inducement correspondences. 
  Unlike the geometric transformations, A is not isometric becuase distances between points are not preserved. 
  
p35
Topology is the mathematical study of properties of objects which are preserved through deformations, twistings, and sgtretchings 
but not through breaks or cuts. 

  1. To each point x there corresponds at least one neighbourhood U(x) and U(x) contains x. 
  2. If U(x) and V(x) are neighbourhoods of the same point x, then there exists a neighbourhood W(x) of x such that W(x) is a 
     subset of the union U(x) and V(x).
  3. If y is a point in U(x), then there exists a neighbourhood V(y) of y such that V(y) is a subset of U(x).
  4. For distint points x and y, there exist two disjoint neighbuorhoods U(x) and V(y). 







